---
layout: download
title: v1.8
next_section: 1-9
permalink: downloads/1-8/
---
The release 1.8 includes improvements in three major areas: interpretation of CSV files, setup/cleanup features and genbiL capabilities. This release also includes a few bug fixes for Genbi.

Please report all the bugs to the [issues tracker](https://nbi.codeplex.com/workitem/list/basic) to ensure they are fixed ... even if they are minor issues.

## What's new ?

### New features

* [Setup and Cleanup](../../documentation/setup-cleanup): Added support for
  * [File manipulations](../../documentation/file-manipulations): copy/delete files
  * [Exe or batch](../../documentation/exe-batch): Execute a program or a .bat file
  * [SQL batch](../../documentation/sql-batch): Execute a SQL batch on a database
* [Define csv-profile](../../documentation/profile-csv): You're not anymore constrained to use semi-columns and carriage return/line feed. This new feature lets you define your favorite field and record separators. The CSV reader has been completely rewritten and also supports UTF-8 and  UTF-16 encoding.
* Improvements for genbiL: I've added a new set of available actions for genbiL (but not available in the UI of Genbi). This new set of features is a revolution and offers new opportunities to automate the process of test-suite generation.
  * [Add Column (case)](../../genbil/case-add): Add a column to the test-cases table with a default value
  * [Filter (case)](../../genbil/case-filter): Limit the set of test-cases to a subset by applying a filter is now supporting multiple values.
  * [Scope (case)](../../genbil/case-scope): Offers the opportunity to have several set of test-cases loaded at the same moment.
  * [Copy (case)](../../genbil/case-copy): Duplicate a set of test-cases
  * [Merge (case)](../../genbil/case-merge): Merge two sets of test-cases
  * [Save (case)](../../genbil/case-save): Save modification applied to a set of test-cases
  * A silent (quiet) mode is now available for Genbi.
  * Control of parameter "parallelize-queries" in genbiL.
* [Trait](../../documentation/trait): a trait is a property (Key/Value) added to a test. Translated to a property of a test in NUnit, this information is rendered in the report of execution.

### Bug fixes
* [$now$ is not correctly formatted before 10AM (leading 0 missing)](https://nbi.codeplex.com/workitem/30) and [Invalid DateTime generated by GenBI](https://nbi.codeplex.com/workitem/41)
* [Permutation of unexpected and missing qualifiers in the comparison of items](https://nbi.codeplex.com/workitem/39)
* [GenBI and match pattern](https://nbi.codeplex.com/workitem/28)
* [GenBI and member count](https://nbi.codeplex.com/workitem/27)

## What's cool
* [Davide Mauri](http://sqlblog.com/blogs/davide_mauri) has spoken about NBi during his session at Summit2014
* I'll be presenting a session about Test automation with NBi for the [Global French Virtual Chapter](http://globalfrench.sqlpass.org). It should be confirmed but probably the 17th of December.
* When a bug is fixed or a feature is ready, I try to put a link to a nightly-build on appVeyor. If this fix/feature is important for you, you can download the build and use it.
* I'll surely blog in the next weeks about the new capabilities of genbiL and how to automate the build of a regression test-suite from scratch in a couple of minutes. Follow this on my [blog](http://seddryck.wordpress.com)

## What's next ?
Main ideas for release 1.9 (and next)

* Create fakes or stubs of views, stored procedures or functions during the setup of  a test and remove them during the cleanup. (Work already started)
* Offer the opportunity to surround the test with a transaction and rollback the transaction when the test has been executed.
* Support testing of structure for database
* Support of rows count tests
* Execute tests with etls running on a remote server.
* Add a setup command to process parts of a cube (SSAS).
* Support some tests about result-sets, to express easily conditions such has "If this field is greater than X then this other field must be greater than Y".
* Support tests on the xml of a report (SSRS)

I'm (still) working on a Release 2.0. This work is delayed to the lack of releases for NUnit 3.0 (and changes in the API). Anyway the goals are still:

* Lot of internal refactoring meaning easier to integrate new features (mostly done)
* Compatible with NUnit 3.0 meaning easier to setup a test suite !
* Easier to port it to another test framework than NUnit (xUnit, Fixie, ...)
* Easier to write helpers to compare result-sets
* Easier to create a Visual Studio Add-in
Naturally this Release 2.0 has a big constraint linked to the availability of NUnit 3.0 (currently still not available) so no planned date for the moment.
